with the trend we're seeing right now is
people are using chat gbt after a month
or so lose this novelty and then it
slows down
so how do you actually get it integrated
in people's daily lives just like how
Alexis in our daily lives or Siri is in
our daily lives you'll start seeing AI
more integrated
thanks for being here ladies and
gentlemen Neil is one of the largest
biggest entrepreneurs and marketers in
the world in fact Entrepreneur magazine
said he's number one marketer in the
world
um you know what you created your first
website at what 15 16 years old and has
been going strong ever since now you own
four multi-million dollar businesses
colleges are using your material I know
one of your big passions is helping
small businesses right helping small
businesses get to where they want to go
and you say there's a formula to getting
results in marketing right can you
explain what that formula is that basic
formula as you understand it
sure so when I say there's a formula to
marketing the the first thing is is you
need to go after a big Tam Tam stands
for total addressable Market if you go
after us it's
it's almost the same amount of work to
Market a small Niche business as it is
to Market in a really large business so
might as well go after a large business
because it's hard to gobble up 100 of a
large foot Niche while it's much easier
to gobble up a fraction of a percent of
a hundred billion dollar market so go
after a large Market
the second one is after you got a large
Market is you need to figure out what
you can give to disrupt that industry so
for example if you're going after health
insurance you can give away payroll
software for free
to then generate more sales for health
insurance because people who pay for
payroll software they typically also
provide their employees health insurance
right so instead of charging them for
what they're used to paying for you then
end up saying hey we'll give you this
thing that doesn't cost us much here for
free and we're going to make a lot of
money charging you for this much bigger
thing which is health insurance
and then the next part is is you just
gotta go Omni channel so from
the tick tocks Instagrams to Facebooks
to Google there's not one channel that
does well it's they all end up getting
crowded in our competitive so you got to
leverage all of them
and other than that you know you just
gotta execute on it and give it time but
those are the main three elements of
course there's a lot of other things
involved in marketing to make each of
those things work it's I oversimplified
it but those are some of the three key
things that people mess up on they don't
pick a big enough Tam they don't figure
out how to disrupt a market and they
think that they can grow a business to
being really amazing with just one
channel you can start off with one
channel but eventually you gotta expand
into all of them So today we're going to
be talking about AI That's the thrust of
what we're talking about clearly and I
watched one of your podcasts recently
and you said we're in the first inning
of the the AI game right have we been in
that first inning for a while because it
seems like the algorithms for Facebook
and those have been around a while have
we been there for a while and and you
see us going to the say the second
inning so to speak soon
yeah we're in the first inning what
you'll see is things will actually speed
up and progress faster and faster so the
amount of time you'll be in any one will
be much longer than the amount of time
you're in ending two and then an ending
three and so forth so on in which it'll
each ending will get shorter and shorter
because technology improves and things
get faster it's just like space
exploration
you know it used to be where NASA was
doing everything and it would take us it
took a long time for us to make a lot of
progress when it comes to space but then
all of a sudden private companies are
sending things into space then all of a
sudden rocks are reusable and then all
of a sudden you have things like star
link that's up and running and you could
be in the middle of nowhere and you can
get fast internet versus the old school
slow satellite internet all I'm getting
at is things progress at a really fast
pace due to technology
with AI we're still in any one there's a
lot of issues with AI and you're gonna
see a lot of them worked on most of them
will not be fixed this year or even next
year it's going to be a long race but
they'll get drastically better over the
next few years and and what do you think
inning two might look like is it going
to be is it going to be similar to this
only you know chat GPT is going to be
better or is there going to be voice
commands any idea what that might look
like
so any two in my opinion will be
integration into more of our lives so
right now everyone looks at Chad GPT oh
I can just ask them a prompt and it ends
up pushing out something the trend we're
seeing right now is people are using
chat GPT after a month or so lose this
novelty and then it slows down
so how do you actually get it integrated
in people's daily lives just like how
Alexa is in our daily lives or Siri is
in our daily lives you'll start seeing
AI more integrated but not from an
aspect of just Alexa Siri yes that's
already there I'm talking more of an
aspect of
I'm working on an assembly line and AI
is doing X Y and Z for me to speed up
the process and make sure no one gets
hurt and everything is done perfectly or
I'm in marketing we have all this
analytical data AI on a daily basis
spits our report and tells us what to do
to get the most out of our marketing by
analyzing everything that's happened in
the last 24 hours okay so a lot of
people are talking about AI being
similar to the.com era would you make
the same comparison where do you think
the biggest opportunities are right now
I would there's a lot of junk there's
going to be a ton of failures and the
biggest opportunity is in my opinion
streamlining a lot of processes and
operations within organizations the
boring stuff if you actually look at the
McKinsey report that came out most of
the money that's being spent on AI is
not things like content creation it's in
systems and processes all right and so a
lot of us are like looking at Ai and
we're not sure where to start do you
have do you have suggestions for small
business owners like where would you
start implementing AI
yeah so as a small business honestly I
wouldn't worry about implementing AI
much at all right now instead I would
just use the tools to help you get some
of your work done
so people look at AI is like hey let me
see if I can integrate in my marking and
just do it for me AI is not there yet
it's not the we're not at a point in
time where you can just rely on AI to do
everything that you need perfectly it's
just like when search engines first came
out a lot of the results were crap
Google showcased bard with the error and
or misinformation not in a bad way but
it's just inaccurate and the market cap
dropped by billions of dollars chat gbt
is inaccurate in so many ways you should
see how many times we use chat GPT and
as plagiarizing content just to be super
transparent it's nowhere near perfect
but where as a business owner you could
be using air right now in your marketing
is
if you take an omni Channel approach
which we talk about in a formula to do
really well in marketing
you have to create content AI can help
you spearhead that content creation
coming up with the concepts and ideas
titles for even blog posts or content
for social media and even creating it
then you need to go out there and modify
the content to make sure it represents
you and it's accurate and it's what you
want AI content by AI isn't good enough
to just post yes the Ryan Reynolds
example was pretty good but that is not
the majority of the cases with AI and
and it may not even been the the whole
example of what he did he probably got a
printout and he probably modified it to
to work for him right and then use that
which is I think what all of us are
doing is we get we get a blog post or an
email or whatever we create on chat gbt
we modify it and then we use it and
that's the way it probably should be
used right now from what I'm hearing you
say yes it was very scripted right there
was no way the Ryan Reynolds like he's
like let me just pull it up right now
and see what happens you know his team
worked on that it was set recording the
quality of the production even though it
looks like it was natural it wasn't shot
with a phone or anything like that yeah
right okay good so what are some of the
big mistakes that you see on
entrepreneurs making our marketers
making when it comes to implementing Ai
and how can we avoid those mistakes the
biggest mistake is they think AI is
perfect and then they just use it and
they just expect the results are going
to be great that's the first one the
second mistake that we see is our going
out there at least in marketing and
they're just like let me go create tons
of content on everything within my
industry so I can catch up with my
competition you can do a search for
anything on the internet a great example
of this is I did a search the other day
of how how to dunk a basketball if
you're short
all right so if I did an example of how
to dunk a basketball if you're short and
I'm just sharing my screen here you can
end up seeing it here I'm gonna end up
closing some of my windows so you kind
of seeing this has 13 Million results
okay
if you look at how many people search
for it in the United States roughly 20.
so there's already tons of content on
any given phrase chances are people are
already clicking on page one maybe page
two and that's it the point I'm getting
is having AI create content any given
topic isn't just going to get you more
traffic Google and social sites already
know how to drown out the crap they've
been doing this for ages there's no
difference just because contest created
by air human they already know how to
drown it out unless it's amazing so what
you need to focus on is a make sure the
content is amazing you know showcase
your experience your expertise your
Authority your trust Google likes
calling it double e a t and the second
is spend more time promoting the content
than creating it because all you're
going to end up doing is just using a to
create a ton of content that no one's
going to read and it's actually going to
hurt your site and get you less traffic
or less social engagement and less
followers to people like yeah this is
junk mediocre content
yeah and it sounds like getting once you
get the output from say chat GPT it's
super important to make it sound like
you would you say that's true as well
you need to make it sound like you but
the example I gave just to double down
on this I gave a really random example
that most people aren't going to type
and that had 13 plus Million results now
imagine if it was on something generic
you're going to have in many cases
hundreds of millions if not billions of
results oh it will allow me to keep not
really you got to compete with 13 or 16
or 100 million other results it's not
that simple
yeah yeah that's crazy yeah so so super
important make sure that you don't just
take chat GPD and post it somewhere you
want to make sure you take the results
and modify it to be your content make it
make it the best it can be and make it
sound like you before you send it out
exactly got it okay so I know a lot of
people are worried about jobs right
we've seen Facebook and Google do
layoffs
um is that true are people actually
losing their jobs already from from Ai
and the explosion of AI right now
people aren't losing their jobs to AI
they're losing their jobs to a bad
economy and companies not hitting their
quarterly earnings Facebook just laid
off more people today I think they did
an announcement that are laying off 10
000 more people or something like that
or 5000 either way it was a large number
AI
if you think about it right now what
we're seeing is there's a demand for
marketers Engineers product people the
list goes on and on who understand AI
can help get those things implemented
within our organization
so there's actually more opportunity for
people with AI than less than people
losing their jobs right now right now I
think it's going to change but right now
that's the case yeah and so let's talk
about that change where where do you see
that change occurring is it is it within
the the entrepreneur industry is it
within uh businesses and all Industries
I literally see it in all Industries the
moment that AI can do a better job than
the average human the reason I say
average human because there's human
error and if the AI can do that job with
less errors and more efficiently you're
going to start seeing it replace jobs
but it's nowhere near there and it's not
going to be there in the next year or
even two years or maybe probably not
even three years it's going to take a
while maybe within three years you
slowly start seeing AI affecting jobs
but I really don't see it happening
anytime soon okay so a lot of hype a lot
of worry that maybe shouldn't be there
and when you look at this who do you
think is most vulnerable who do you see
is the most vulnerable at losing their
jobs or or losing their business
anything that's manual labor
anything in manual labor okay flipping a
burger right you can use machines for
that that already exists but like that's
like an extreme example or like having
them do very basic simple things like
number crunchers or people who are
analyzing data you can have ai just
replace a lot of those kind of things
okay copywriters or copywriters at risk
and and other content creators social
media managers no any so
AI will the way I see AI affecting
social and marketing and content is
it'll help streamline your job and allow
you to produce more output for the hours
you're given so instead of replacing
jobs they may not have to hire as many
people and they can get more output from
the same people ex AI helps you with a
ton of content ideas or helps you write
some of the content you can go to modify
and it saves you have the time so you
can increase your output
O'Neill when I work with a lot of
coaches they're very concerned that AI
is going to come in and start taking
their business form people won't need
coaches because a lot of us going to be
replacing jobs that people don't want to
do and the burglary example is a great
one there's already machines that flip
Burgers but imagine AI integrated into
the burger and be like oh let me flip it
oh the temperature's not right it needs
to be cooked a little bit more oh if we
add these seasonings people are going to
love it even more like think about
getting a little bit more sophisticated
that way or you're walking into your
home
and it makes it easier to cook or do
things or hey here's all the recipes
based on what you have in the fridge we
analyze this and here's what you can
make for dinner in less than five
minutes right think of it as something
that'll make life easier versus it
replacing you could say oh that's going
to replace a lot of chefs at home well
how many people are actually chefs
private chefs for you know the average
American not that many
yeah yeah that's a great point so you
you don't think coaches really have
anything to worry about within the next
at least two or three years AI is not
really that close to being able to coach
you say online
well the better way to think about it is
is the air is only good as this input
search engines have been trying to fight
misinformation and false information for
well over 10 years Google still has that
issue Bing still has the issue and the
list goes on and on so if the input is
still not 100 accurate how do you expect
the output to be a hundred percent
accurate for that reason you can't
expect the AI to be amazing think of AI
as like a a better version of an article
spinner
hey how can someone generate more sales
let's say you're a sales coach
well it's going to scour the web figure
everything out that it's analyzing and
then just give you data based on what it
finds in essence it's spinning up old
information regurgitating it
so as a coach as long as you can stay
ahead of the curve and constantly are
researching and come up with new trends
and ideas and strategies that other
people aren't leveraging for
you can have a leg up on AI at least in
the next two three four five years
I've heard people say that the only
people that are going to be are the some
of the people that are going to be
affected negatively by AR the people
that don't don't embrace it and start
integrating it because all the all their
competitors will be but would you say
that's a true statement and and what is
it it is yeah embrace it leverage it
that's where the opportunity is so let's
talk about leveraging it so we kind of
got a good foundation of understanding
AI a little bit
um what are some of the the maybe the
key points or key principles of how we
can leverage AI at this point
all right so I'll go with the three
things I think you mentioned three ways
that we can embrace it and use it so one
have ai come up with content ideas for
you the biggest thing is people have
issues coming up with a lot of ideas for
their their business their marketing
they don't have a consistent content
calendar this is going to help you guys
a lot number two is analyzing analytics
data you're gonna see more AI Solutions
come out if you look at most people
they're using Google analytics but how
many people actually log in and take
actionable insights based on that data
very few so you can end up using AR for
that
number three
the thing that I love the most is when
you're starting off you may not have a
lot of time to test your landing pages
your collateral you may like oh things
aren't working with conversions or my
images on my Facebook ads aren't doing
well you can start using dolly or chat
gbt or a lot of these Solutions just
come up tons of variations which allow
you to test to figure out all right let
me see what will work versus what won't
work I know a lot of people are looking
at video AI for video creating you know
the avatars that come up and you can
type in your information and it'll
basically spin out this video and there
other people are using it for audio
other people are using it for picture
generation do you think AI is there yet
to create content that is that's helpful
in marketing or or is it something
that's not quite where it needs to be
yet yeah I I think it can help I don't
think it's that great for video I think
it's drastically worse for video than it
is for text and I'm not a fan of it at
its in its current form do you think
it's it's more harmful than good to use
a bad
Avatar generated video then it's really
harmful you want to know why because the
way the social platforms and the
algorithms work is if you keep putting
out crap it's gonna hurt your reach for
your future content so you're better off
only putting out good stuff than crap or
mediocre stuff and a lot of the AI video
created content and audio content is
just not there got it so how does it
hurt your your your your your search
ability and and your your ranking and
stuff how does that happen well well the
way it works with social platforms at
least is if you put out content and
people don't want to engage with it it
tells a social platforms even if you
have a million followers people don't
care for what you're posting they don't
want to engage so then you start doing
it another two three four times like no
one likes engaging with these this
person Neil Patel or whoever it is or
Bob so when you keep putting out crap
content what do they do they show it to
less and less of your followers and then
when you start putting out good content
too late people don't want to engage
with your stuff so we're not really
going to show much of your stuff and
then it takes a long time to recover so
it actually hurts you to put out crap
content with search and SEO is the same
thing you put out crap content you
already soften the example I showed
you're competing with millions of people
they were like oh they're just creating
tons of me too content nothing new
nothing unique here no one wants a link
to them we shouldn't rank them they just
have a lot of bad content great example
of this was about.com they had tons of
content they actually got more traffic
when they split up their content into
unique site spokes on niches and then
they deleted a lot of the junk I forgot
what percentage of the content they
deleted but it was more than 20 30 they
deleted a large chunk of their content
and they got more traffic because the
more the the more portion of your
content is good the better the platforms
whether search or social you know favor
you the more traffic the more likes the
higher rankings you're gonna get versus
if you just put a lot of mediocre stuff
out
okay so let's say let's say you know I'm
you're doing a private consultation with
me and I'm saying Neil I don't know
where to start with AI where would you
say the first thing I would go to dig
into my business and start implementing
right away
if you don't know where to start with AI
the first thing that you should do is go
analyze your competition you can use a
lot of the tools out there from Uber
suggests to similar web to sem rush to
socialblade to see what your competition
is doing that you're not doing and then
use AI to help you with your ideation
for content and creating the content
again you can't publish it in that form
you're going to have to modify it
heavily to be where it needs to be and
be amazing but the biggest thing that we
see a lot of small businesses lack is
they just don't create the content
that's needed to really compete with the
larger companies
got it got it and you had said something
that kind of made me think I probably
should be asking this question like is
it is there a danger and how can we
protect ourselves a danger of plagiarism
danger of you know having information
that that Chachi BTS fits out that
somebody else's we had no idea and then
we post it and that sounds like a real
thing and how do we protect ourselves
from that you can run it through tools
like copyscape it'll tell you if it's
plagiarized or not there's a lot of
plagiarism tools out there that you can
see so so would you recommend taking
every everything that you get from it
chat GPT take it through what was the
name of the website again copyscape
copyscape so go to copyscape.com run it
through there before you post it on your
site and then you can can protect
yourself against potential plagiarism or
copyrights et cetera yep okay awesome so
I start with research what would be that
maybe in the next couple steps that we
might take as far as implementing it as
a small business
so the issue isn't implementing it once
you got the research and you create the
content you're pushing out there the
issue isn't Ai and how it can really
help you streamline it the big mistake
that companies and marketers are making
is they're not spending enough time
promoting it and that's not an AI thing
that's more of a time thing and you just
gotta do it so for example who's
tweeting out content that's similar to
yours on you know Twitter hit them up
build a relationship ask them to tweet
out your content and tweet out theirs in
exchange look to see who's engaging with
your competition on social media go
follow them on their profiles comment on
their profiles engage with them build
relationships so then that way your
profiles are doing better start going
live on social media Instagram is
lacking live content they've actually
seen a decline the last stat that I saw
maybe has changed this year but the last
thought I saw in 2022 they were starting
to see a decline in live content so
consider creating live content and
making sure that it's really valuable
and you can get ideas from any of these
AI tools on some things that you should
talk about the other thing you want to
do is look to see who's linking to your
competition any of the link tools out
there like ubersuggest or ahrefs or
semrush you can do a lot of it for free
and Uber says we'll show you who's
linking to your competition build
relations with those people ask them to
link to your content all this stuff is a
lot of manual work is it what you
ideally want to do no but someone needs
to do it and this is what right now ai
can't do and that's where you should be
spending the majority of your time in
marketing if you really want to see
results spend 20 percent of the time
creating the content 80 promoting it and
you may be like that's not enough time
creating content AI can help you create
more content but you don't need to
create a lot of content just make sure
the content you do create is amazing and
you spend the majority of the time
promoting it so good so good okay great
that's some that's some really solid
tools there that we can use right away I
have seen tools out there that help you
hire on on SEO for example I've seen a
tool out there that that will take a
blog post and rewrite it and so it ranks
higher are those tools valuable is that
are they where they need to be is there
anything we need to know about those
one of the biggest ways to get higher
rankings on Google is not to rewrite
content is to update it if you look at
any search that you performed there's a
good chance of Wikipedia ranks on page
one why there's already a lot of results
most of them are old but Wikipedia keeps
up to date so if you take your hit
pieces the ones that really matter to
your business continually update them
not update them with a sentence or a
photo but update them to continually
provide value whatever that may be maybe
a few paragraphs maybe one sentence
because there doesn't need to be
anything really updated but if you keep
it up to date for however much it needs
to be up to date you'll find that your
rankings and your traffic are going to
continually be better
and let's say you're using a repurposing
strategy right and you're taking your
old videos and it's like they're totally
relevant now how can you make them up to
date and and keep that process going
forward videos you can't you would just
go and create new videos got it but but
blog posts you can and what you what you
just said is just update the content
update the date
for audio and video you would just
create new versions once it's out of
date
guy that got it okay well we're just
about out of time I'd like to have you
talk a little bit about you have four
multi-million dollar companies can you
tell us a little bit about those
companies so we know how we can engage
with them and how we can use them and
how they're valuable for small business
owners like ourselves sure my main
business is NP digital it's an ad agency
we help companies of all sizes grow
we're Global I think we're in nine or
ten regions now I forgot how many by
then year we should be in 20 and we also
have software tools like answer the
public and ubersuggest and some of them
are integrating AI to make your guys
lives easier when it comes to marketing
awesome awesome well Neil any last words
from our from our our audience here
today around AI before you go
don't be worried about it embrace it and
don't assume it's going to be perfect
make sure you take the time to modify it
or else you're not going to get the
results you want all right so so the the
all-out nuclear war is not going to
happen from from the Terminator yet we
got time and that's right like I said
we're in the first any any idea when
we're going to get to like the ninth
inning of this thing it could be five
ten years from now or longer when Elon
Musk creates human looking robots that
have ai integrated is probably the ninth
inning yeah and that's coming it's time
all right well thank you so much we
appreciate your time today thanks for
taking your your time to be with us
small business owners and and helping us
to understand the landscape of AI today
sounds good take care everyone